siril_job_runner/README.md, before:

# Siril Job Runner

Automated Siril image processing pipeline with JSON job file configuration.

## Features

- Job file-based configuration for reproducible processing
- Auto-detection of calibration requirements from FITS headers
- Temperature tolerance matching for darks/bias
- Multi-night light frame support
- Automatic master calibration building and caching
- Support for LRGB, RGB, SHO, HOO, LSHO, and LHOO workflows
- HDR support: automatic brightness-weighted blending of multiple exposures
- VeraLux stretch and enhancement (Silentium, Revela, Vectra, StarComposer)
- StarNet integration for star removal and recomposition

## Usage

```bash
# Validate a job file (check calibration availability)
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --validate

# Dry run (show what would happen)
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --dry-run

# Run full pipeline
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json

# Run with logging to file
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --log

# Force reprocessing (ignore cached stacks)
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --force

# Run specific stage
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --stage preprocess

# View registration stats from previous run
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --seq-stats
```

### sirilpy (Siril Integration)

sirilpy is required for actual processing but is not available on PyPI. It comes bundled with Siril 1.2+. Make sure Siril is running with scripting enabled before running jobs.

### Siril Catalog Installation (Recommended)

Install local catalogs for faster processing and offline capability.

In Siril GUI: Scripts > Python Scripts > Core > Siril_Catalog_Installer

1. Astrometry Catalog (~1.5GB): Select "Astrometry Catalog", click Install
2. SPCC Catalog (~5-10GB): Select "SPCC Catalog", enter latitude/longitude, select "Visible from latitude", click Install

Bend, Oregon: Latitude 44.06, Longitude -121.32

Without local SPCC catalog, each job spends ~60s querying Gaia DR3 online. With local catalog, this drops to a few seconds.

## Directory Structure

The system expects this directory layout:

```
E:\Astro\RC51_ASI2600\
├── calibration\
│   ├── masters\
│   │   ├── biases\
│   │   │   └── bias_2024_01_15.fit
│   │   ├── darks\
│   │   │   └── dark_300s_-10C_2024_01_15.fit
│   │   └── flats\
│   │       └── flat_L_2024_01_15.fit
│   └── raw\
│       ├── biases\
│       │   └── 2024_01_15\
│       ├── darks\
│       │   └── 2024_01_15_-10C\
│       │       ├── 180\
│       │       └── 300\
│       └── flats\
│           └── 2024_01_15\
│               ├── L\
│               ├── R\
│               ├── G\
│               └── B\
├── M42\
│   └── 2024_01_15\
│       ├── L180\
│       ├── L30\
│       ├── R60\
│       ├── G60\
│       └── B60\
└── jobs\
    └── M42_Jan2024.json
```

Key conventions:
- Dates use underscores: `2024_01_15`
- Light folders: `{filter}{exposure}` (e.g., `L180`, `R60`)
- Bias: No temperature (readout noise is temperature-independent)
- Darks: `{date}_{temp}/{exposure}/` (thermal noise is temperature-dependent)
- Masters are cached in `calibration/masters/`

## Job File Format

```json
{
  "name": "M42_Jan2024",
  "type": "LRGB",
  "calibration": {
    "bias": "2024_01_15",
    "darks": "2024_01_15",
    "flats": "2024_01_20"
  },
  "lights": {
    "L": ["M42/2024_01_15/L180", "M42/2024_01_20/L180"],
    "R": ["M42/2024_01_15/R60"],
    "G": ["M42/2024_01_15/G60"],
    "B": ["M42/2024_01_15/B60"]
  },
  "output": "M42/processed",
  "options": {
    "temp_tolerance": 2
  }
}
```

### HDR Workflow

For bright objects requiring multiple exposures, include folders with different exposure times:

```json
{
  "lights": {
    "L": ["M42/2024_01_15/L180", "M42/2024_01_15/L30"],
    "R": ["M42/2024_01_15/R180", "M42/2024_01_15/R30"]
  }
}
```

The system will:
1. Stack each exposure separately (`stack_L_180s.fit`, `stack_L_30s.fit`)
2. Cross-register all stacks
3. Blend using brightness-weighted HDR before composition

See `examples/example_lrgb_hdr_job.json` for a complete HDR example.

### Settings File

Create a `settings.json` file (copy from `settings.template.json`) to set defaults:

```json
{
  "base_path": "/path/to/your/astro/data",
  "options": {
    "spcc_enabled": true,
    "spcc_sensor": "Sony IMX411/455/461/533/571"
  }
}
```

Settings are merged with job options (job options take precedence).

See `examples/` for more job file examples.

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect code quality improvements
AGENTS.md:
- Fill in repository layout (was TODO)
- Update Python version to >=3.11
- Add test with coverage command
- Add VeraLux self-containment rule
- Add CI reference
- Clarify 300 LOC as guideline, not hard limit

docs/code.md:
- Complete module table with all modules grouped by function
- Add config enum documentation (StrEnum types)
- Add VeraLux module design section
- Document post-stretch pipeline consistency

docs/veralux.md:
- Add self-containment rule with rationale
- Add module type column (ported script vs shared utility)
- Clarify which duplication is intentional

docs/architecture.md:
- Fix post-stretch pipeline: all variants (autostretch and veralux,
  baseline and starless) now go through identical post-processing
- Fix incorrect default values: silentium_enabled (true not false),
  revela_enabled (true not false), deconv_enabled (true not false)
- Add post-stretch pipeline section explaining the design

README.md:
- Add Python 3.11+ requirement
- Add lint command to dev section
- Add CI note

siril_job_runner/README.md:
- Fix sirilpy -> pysiril naming

Co-authored-by: Joey Doll <jcdoll@gmail.com>

siril_job_runner/README.md, after:

# Siril Job Runner

Automated Siril image processing pipeline with JSON job file configuration.

## Features

- Job file-based configuration for reproducible processing
- Auto-detection of calibration requirements from FITS headers
- Temperature tolerance matching for darks/bias
- Multi-night light frame support
- Automatic master calibration building and caching
- Support for LRGB, RGB, SHO, HOO, LSHO, and LHOO workflows
- HDR support: automatic brightness-weighted blending of multiple exposures
- VeraLux stretch and enhancement (Silentium, Revela, Vectra, StarComposer)
- StarNet integration for star removal and recomposition

## Usage

```bash
# Validate a job file (check calibration availability)
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --validate

# Dry run (show what would happen)
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --dry-run

# Run full pipeline
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json

# Run with logging to file
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --log

# Force reprocessing (ignore cached stacks)
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --force

# Run specific stage
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --stage preprocess

# View registration stats from previous run
uv run python run_job.py jobs/M42.json --seq-stats
```

### pysiril (Siril Integration)

pysiril is required for actual processing. It is installed from the GitLab repository (see pyproject.toml). Make sure Siril is running with scripting enabled before running jobs.

### Siril Catalog Installation (Recommended)

Install local catalogs for faster processing and offline capability.

In Siril GUI: Scripts > Python Scripts > Core > Siril_Catalog_Installer

1. Astrometry Catalog (~1.5GB): Select "Astrometry Catalog", click Install
2. SPCC Catalog (~5-10GB): Select "SPCC Catalog", enter latitude/longitude, select "Visible from latitude", click Install

Bend, Oregon: Latitude 44.06, Longitude -121.32

Without local SPCC catalog, each job spends ~60s querying Gaia DR3 online. With local catalog, this drops to a few seconds.

## Directory Structure

The system expects this directory layout:

```
E:\Astro\RC51_ASI2600\
├── calibration\
│   ├── masters\
│   │   ├── biases\
│   │   │   └── bias_2024_01_15.fit
│   │   ├── darks\
│   │   │   └── dark_300s_-10C_2024_01_15.fit
│   │   └── flats\
│   │       └── flat_L_2024_01_15.fit
│   └── raw\
│       ├── biases\
│       │   └── 2024_01_15\
│       ├── darks\
│       │   └── 2024_01_15_-10C\
│       │       ├── 180\
│       │       └── 300\
│       └── flats\
│           └── 2024_01_15\
│               ├── L\
│               ├── R\
│               ├── G\
│               └── B\
├── M42\
│   └── 2024_01_15\
│       ├── L180\
│       ├── L30\
│       ├── R60\
│       ├── G60\
│       └── B60\
└── jobs\
    └── M42_Jan2024.json
```

Key conventions:
- Dates use underscores: `2024_01_15`
- Light folders: `{filter}{exposure}` (e.g., `L180`, `R60`)
- Bias: No temperature (readout noise is temperature-independent)
- Darks: `{date}_{temp}/{exposure}/` (thermal noise is temperature-dependent)
- Masters are cached in `calibration/masters/`

## Job File Format

```json
{
  "name": "M42_Jan2024",
  "type": "LRGB",
  "calibration": {
    "bias": "2024_01_15",
    "darks": "2024_01_15",
    "flats": "2024_01_20"
  },
  "lights": {
    "L": ["M42/2024_01_15/L180", "M42/2024_01_20/L180"],
    "R": ["M42/2024_01_15/R60"],
    "G": ["M42/2024_01_15/G60"],
    "B": ["M42/2024_01_15/B60"]
  },
  "output": "M42/processed",
  "options": {
    "temp_tolerance": 2
  }
}
```

### HDR Workflow

For bright objects requiring multiple exposures, include folders with different exposure times:

```json
{
  "lights": {
    "L": ["M42/2024_01_15/L180", "M42/2024_01_15/L30"],
    "R": ["M42/2024_01_15/R180", "M42/2024_01_15/R30"]
  }
}
```

The system will:
1. Stack each exposure separately (`stack_L_180s.fit`, `stack_L_30s.fit`)
2. Cross-register all stacks
3. Blend using brightness-weighted HDR before composition

See `examples/example_lrgb_hdr_job.json` for a complete HDR example.

### Settings File

Create a `settings.json` file (copy from `settings.template.json`) to set defaults:

```json
{
  "base_path": "/path/to/your/astro/data",
  "options": {
    "spcc_enabled": true,
    "spcc_sensor": "Sony IMX411/455/461/533/571"
  }
}
```

Settings are merged with job options (job options take precedence).

See `examples/` for more job file examples.
